So let's dive into the basics about web components then how they generally work how we create our own
web components and for this we will use vanilla javascript.
This means no third party libraries no other packages just JavaScript as it natively runs in the browser.
But first of all let me come back to the question what web components are obviously we already learned
that web components are basically our own H2 Mal tax like my tooltip here which is not attack built
into the web or dribbled into the browser and that these are basically H2 Mal tax which we define in
JavaScript code and which we then can use on our page so web components are really as we use them custom
H2 male elements but they are made up of three theoretically four but three important parts.
The first and the core part that makes up web components the web components specification set is that
custom Tim Al element specification and essence we in the end built custom H2 male elements.
This is the core part.
This is essentially a bunch of JavaScript functionalities that allow us to define our own age HTML tags
and the logic behind them.
So this is a crucial part.
Now you might wonder OK what else could be important if we are talking about creating our own custom
H2 male elements.
Well there are two other pieces which are also very important and which are used in that javascript
logic we write behind our custom H html element and the first additional set of functions or a features
offered in javascript that is important related to creating custom elements is the shadow Dom specification
the shadow Dom specification is all about giving us some features to create our own DOM tree our own
elements behind dead elements you could say that are hidden away from the main Dom and I will come back
to that in more detail later where this will become clearer so which is in the end just allowing us
to define our own age team old tags which are then grouped together behind our custom aged him old hack
and which are separated from our main our normal Dom and this is especially helpful when we talk about
CSR as styling because the shadow Dom will allow us to define see us as styles that only affect our
custom element and even if we style our h1 tag in our custom element we would not affect our age 1 tax
on the page and this will become all clearer once we actually use it and dive deeper into it.
So it's another crucial part when it comes to separating our logic from the rest of the page you could
say the third important specification is about templates and slots and this is all something we will
use in great detail which in the end allows us to define our own HCM ELD structure which is hidden behind
our custom element and which allows us to add some flexible entry points these so-called slots that
we can then actually populate with information from outside when we use our custom element.
And again this is something which will become clearer later.
So I know that this is all very confusing right now because I'm throwing a lot of interesting words
around a lot of specifications without explaining in detail what they do because it makes more sense
to gradually build up the knowledge and we will actually start with custom H table elements before we
add these other features before we add the shadow Dom and the templates.
Now I also mentioned that there are four specifications that make up the web components spec and the
last specification is about h Tim L. imports.
The idea here was that we can actually import H2 Mal files into H2 Val files just as we can import CSX
and script files but this is actually not a continued specification because as you will learn in this
course there is a more elegant way of importing Euro components and of importing D.H. to Al inside of
your components.
So we will not need this and indeed it's not continuous it's not added to all browsers and there are
no plans to do so.